Clarified IAP monitoring and auth services (#697)
kubeflow/website: content/docs/gke/deploy/monitor-iap-setup.md

+++
title = "Monitor Cloud IAP Setup"
description = "Instructions for monitoring and troubleshooting Cloud IAP"
weight = 5
+++

[Cloud Identity-Aware Proxy (Cloud IAP)](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/) is 
the recommended solution for accessing your Kubeflow 
deployment from outside the cluster, when running Kubeflow on Google Cloud
Platform (GCP).

> This document is a step-by-step guide to ensuring that your IAP-secured endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is a step-by-step guide to ensure that your IAP-secured endpoint
```

> is available, and to debugging problems that may cause the endpoint to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is available, and to debug problems that can cause the endpoint to become
```

unavailable. 

## Introduction

> When deploying Kubeflow using the [deployment UI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-ui/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deploy Kubeflow using the [deployment UI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-ui/) 
```

or the [command-line interface](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli/),

> you choose the authentication method you want to use. One of the options is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
select an authentication method. One of the options is
```

Cloud IAP. This document assumes that you have already deployed Kubeflow.

Cloud IAP gives you the following benefits:

>  * Users can log in in using their GCP accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Users can log in using their GCP accounts.
```

     ...
     ```

       Any problems with creating the load balancer are reported as Kubernetes 
       events in the results of the above `describe` command.

     * If the address isn't set then there was a problem creating the load 
       balancer.

     * The `CREATE` event indicates the load balancer was successfully 
       created on the specified IP address.

>      * The most common error is running out of GCP quota. To fix this problem,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * The most common error is to run out of GCP quota. To fix this problem,
```

          type: ValidateFailed
      ```

    It can take around 10 minutes to provision a certificate after the 
    creation of the load balancer.

    The most recent condition should be `Certificate issued successfully`.

>     The most common error is running out of [Let's Encrypt 

Reviewer: This is the second  instance of "the most common error is ____" in this document. It might be better to just say that "A common error for Let's Encrypt is to run out of certificate quota."

Perhaps also apply the same to the previous instance of "the most common error", which is about GCP quota. It might be good to help distinguish the two quota types more clearly.

        kind: compute#backendServiceGroupHealth
     ```

    Both back ends should be reported as healthy.
    It can take several minutes for the load balancer to consider the back ends 
    healthy.

    The service with port `${NODE_PORT}` is the one that handles Kubeflow 
    traffic.

    If a back end is unhealthy check the status of the Envoy pods:

    ```
    kubectl -n kubeflow get pods -l service=envoy
    NAME                     READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    envoy-69bf97959c-29dnw   2/2       Running   2          1d
    envoy-69bf97959c-5w5rl   2/2       Running   3          1d
    envoy-69bf97959c-9cjtg   2/2       Running   3          1d
    ```

>     * The back ends should have status `Running`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The back ends must have the `Running` status.
```

>     * A small number of restarts is expected since the configuration process

Reviewer: What is restarting? The pod, the system, or the application?

      restarts the Envoy containers.

>     * If the pods are crash looping look at the logs to try to figure out why.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * If the pods are stuck in a crash loop, look at the logs to identify the cause of the crash.
```

        ```
        kubectl -n kubeflow logs ${POD}
        ```

        Refer to the [troubleshooting 
        guide](/docs/gke/troubleshooting-gke/#envoy-pods-crash-looping-root-cause-is-backend-quota-exceeded)
        for common problems, including exceeded quota.

> 1. Now that the certificate exists, the Ingress resource should report that it 

Reviewer: Is "Ingress" the name of the resource? Not sure if this needs to be capitalized or not.

Author: I checked the Kubernetes docs and as far as I could tell they capitalize it.

  is serving on HTTPS:

    ```
    kubectl -n kubeflow get ingress
    NAME            HOSTS                                                        ADDRESS          PORTS     AGE
    envoy-ingress   mykubeflow.endpoints.myproject.cloud.goog   35.244.132.159   80, 443   1d
    ```

>     If you don't see port 443, look at the Ingress events using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you don't see port `443`, look at the Ingress events using 
```

Author: Hmm, not sure about this one. "Port 443" is a concept in and of itself, so I think I'll leave it without the code formatting.

>     If you don't see port 443, look at the Ingress events using 

Reviewer: Not sure if Ingress needs to be capitalized here.

Author: I'll go with capital letters, as AFAICT the k8s docs capitalize it consistently.

    `kubectl describe` to see if there are any errors.

1. Try accessing Cloud IAP at the fully qualified domain name in your web 
  browser:

    ```
    https://<your-fully-qualified-domain-name>     
    ```

>     If you get SSL errors, this typically means your SSL certificate is still

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you receive SSL errors when you log in, your SSL certificate might not have
```

>     propagating. Wait a bit and try again. SSL propagation can take up to 10 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    propagated. Wait a few minutes and try again. SSL propagation can take up to 10 
```
